# Meteorite Landing Analyzer

<p><u>Scenario:</u> You are operating a robotic vehicle on Mars and tasked to investigate <b>five</b> meteorite landing sites in <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syrtis_Major_quadrangle">Syrtis Major</a>. You need to calculate the time your robot takes to investigate the sites so that you can report to your supervisor.<br>

The Meteorite Landing Analyzer helps you generate five random meteorite landing sites and calculate the travel time between each site, as well as the total time the robot takes to complete its mission.</p>

## Getting Started

Install this project by cloning the repository, making the scripts executable, and adding them to your PATH. For example:
`git clone https://github.com/dhannywi/COE332.git` <br>

This will clone the whole `COE332` folder. However, you will want to change your directory to a folder called `homework02` that contains the code and README for the Meteorite Landing Analyzer.
`cd .\COE332\homework02\` <br>

### Dependencies
 The scripts was created using <b>Python 3.8.10</b>, and utilizes the `json` , `random` and `math` libraries that is part of Python's standard libraries. Please ensure that you have the same version or higher when running the scripts. You can download Python <a href= "https://www.python.org/">here</a>.

### Executing program

This project contains two python scripts:

1.  `json_site_generator.py`

2.  `parse_site_data.py`

  <br>

#### 1.  `json_site_generator.py`

The script randomly generates latitude, longitude, and compositions for the five meteorite landing sites. The resulting data is then saved as a JSON file `landing_sites.json`.

It contains two functions:
*  `generate_sites()` takes input of the upper and lower bounds of latitude and longitude. This function randomly generates latitude, longitude, and compositions for the five meteorite landing sites, and returns a dictionary containing the landing sites details.
* `main()` writes the data generated by `generate_sites()` function into a JSON file `landing_sites.json`
  
To run the scripts and generate the JSON file containing the meteorite landing sites, execute the command `python3 json_site_generator.py` on your terminal.
<p>Sample output of the JSON file generated:</p>

```
{

"sites": [

{

"site_id": 1,

"latitude": 17.788959083889686,

"longitude": 83.5989317350895,

"composition": "stony-iron"

},

{

"site_id": 2,

"latitude": 17.43217804874066,

"longitude": 82.64402277823456,

"composition": "iron"

},

{

"site_id": 3,

"latitude": 16.231365923920233,

"longitude": 83.57006082947389,

"composition": "iron"

},

{

"site_id": 4,

"latitude": 17.92243772242129,

"longitude": 83.08538151591914,

"composition": "stony"

},

{

"site_id": 5,

"latitude": 17.27275635202848,

"longitude": 82.67496631452134,

"composition": "stony"

}

]

}
```
<br>

#### 2. `parse_site_data.py`

The script reads in the meteorite landing data JSON file `landing_sites.json` generated from `json_site_generator.py` and calculates the time required to visit and take samples from the five sites in order.<br>

The script contains three functions:

*  `calc_gcd()` takes input of the latitude and longitude values of two points, the function `calc_gdc` calculates distance between points using the great-circle distance algorithm.
* `calc_times()` iterates through a list of dictionaries containing the site data, pulling out values associated with a given key at a given index. `calc_gcd()` function is then called to compute distance. Based on the distance, travel time of the robot is computed. The function returns travel time and sampling time in the form of a tuple.
*  `main()` reads the JSON file containing the meteorite landing data and calls the `calc_times()` function to get the travel time and sampling time of the robot. The information presents the information as an output to the user.
  
<br>

Sample output using data generated from `json_site_generator.py`:

```
leg = 1, time to travel = 13.93 hr, time to sample = 3 hr
leg = 2, time to travel = 5.78 hr, time to sample = 2 hr
leg = 3, time to travel = 8.83 hr, time to sample = 2 hr
leg = 4, time to travel = 10.37 hr, time to sample = 1 hr
leg = 5, time to travel = 4.49 hr, time to sample = 1 hr
===============================
number of legs = 5, total time to sample = 52.4 hr
```

## Authors
Dhanny W Indrakusuma<br>
dhannywi@utexas.edu
